Well, in this module I not only
want to explain how the request
travels through the application,
though that is extremely important.
I also wanna show how to adjust
the server-side code.
Right now in the app.js file in
the route folder, we get this get route.
This uses the express router as you can see
and on this router we can define routes
by using the HTTP methods as names for
the methods we execute here, like get in this case.
Then we specify the path which we want to handle
so just slash here, so /message would not
get handled by this route, for example.
And then all middlewares set up in express.js
and the route is just some kind of middleware
applied to a request, have this callback,
which includes the request which was sent,
the response which is being built by express.js,
and this next function it is actually,
which you can execute to tell the request
to travel on.
It's not getting called here.
We could call it like this, but we don't
want the request to continue its journey.
Here, we're sending a response, so we're done.
We don't want to continue because
then we would get back to the app.js file
in the root folder, and reach this code here
and send another response, which is never good.
You see the execution of the next method here,
for example, on my own middleware
where I do want to continue because
all I do here is set some header.
I don't send a response, so I do want to
forward the request, I want to continue with it.
I only want it to adjust the response,
but not send it yet.
That's a different thing with render here.
Well of that, let's simply set up
another route here, shall we?
To see how something is able to change.
I'll name it /message, and I will create
a new view for this in the views folder.
I'll name is node hps since we're
showcasing some node hps features.
And I'll name it a node.js view,
and I will put a message here.
Now we're using a templating engine as I said,
which means we can not only write HTML code
in this file, but also this template syntax
of the language we're using to output some data.
I'm using handlebars as a templating engine,
and I'm not going to dive super deep
into that here, because that's not really
what this course is about.
But generally, we output data with handlebars
by using double curly braces,
and then between the curly braces
we may output any JavaScript variable
which was passed to this view.
So right now we're not passing anything,
we're not even rendering the view
so let's change this here.
Let's change the res.render method to render node,
referring to this node hps file here.
The extension is added automatically.
And then we can pass a second argument here
which is a JavaScript object.
Here, we set up key value pairs
where we can use the keys later on
in the view to access the value.
So let's pass a message here.
Let's say hello, hello is a string.
And then in node hps I can output message.
And message here, of course, refers to
this message key.
With that, we need to restart the server,
cancel it with control C and then run nmp start again
since we changed some service-side code.
And if I now reload here, we still see hello world
because I changed that back.
But if we go to message, we see a node.js view
and then here, hello, our message.
The bootstrap styling is gone as a side note
because in node hps we don't import any styling.
But you see, this is how we can render
a different view with node.js only.
Now we won't do this throughout this course,
but I want you to understand how we can
set up multiple routes, and what this
render function here actually does.